DOCS-6415-(was-DOCS-5652-v2)-appdev-duke (#932)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/mule-app-dev.adoc

= Mule Application Development
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Mule applications enable you to perform data integrations for your use cases.
Typical Mule applications read data from internal and external sources,
process and transform data to the required formats and structures, and
write that output to the systems and servers where you store and use the
transformed data.

> 

Reviewer: This is a great intro!

Now, because this set begins with a title at the first level (=), it's subtopics should be at the second level (==), in normal outline form:

=Mule Application Development
==Development Environments
==Appliction Features
==Tutorials
==Build and Consume an API
==Development
==See Also

Based on these titles alone, it seems as if the doc should be organized by...:

1. Description and goals of applications (features?) and relation to APIs
2. Description and goals of development (environments too) and relation to APIs
3. Actual TASK: Build an API
4. Actual TASK: Consume an API
5. Tutorials that take users through the actual tasks
6. See Also

That does not necessarily mean that all this content belongs on the landing page. Just an intro to it.

RE: Landing page title, ask yourself these questions:

If this is the landing page for the entire deliverable, do these subtopics directly relate, and in the same order, to the content of the whole deliverable (one "per chapter," so to speak)?

Are each of these subtopics directly subordinate to the parent topic of Application Dev, or are any of these subordinate to another subtopic ("section" of a "chapter")?

Does this page introduce all of the highest-level content in the whole deliverable?

> === Development Environments

Reviewer: This is a Level-3 title under a Level-1; did you mean for it to be Level-2?
See notes above.

Reviewer: I am not sure that we need subtitles on the landing page at all. 
For example, you could use your existing intro paragraph, and then...:

- Comment that before creating an app, you should understand certain concepts, such as (name some that you had planned for the subtopic Application Features?)
- Specify the design environments
- Say something about after deciding on an environment, you are ready to build and consume, supported by tutorial information

You can develop a Mule application using Anypoint Studio (an Eclipse-based IDE),
Flow Designer (a Cloud-based application in Design Center, on Anypoint Platform),

> or, if you are an advanced developer, in your own IDE.

Reviewer: Suggestion for easier consumption/comparison:

Depending on your environment and experience, you can develop a Mule application in any of the following ways:
* Using Anypoint Studio, an Eclipse-based IDE
* Using Anypoint Design Center's Flow Designer, a cloud-based application in Design Center, on Anypoint Platform
* Using your own IDE, if you are an advanced developer

> For example, in Studio, you build and design a Mule application in a project

Reviewer: I suggest saving actual examples and other details for the topic in the doc that follows the landing page.

that contains one or more an XML-based files. A Mule project supports all the
dependencies required for development. For example, the
xref:7.3@docs-studio::index.adoc#package-explorer[Package Explorer] in Studio
provides access to the project folders and files that make up a Mule project
support a design-time environment in which you can also build, run, and test
your Mule app. Flow Designer supports a Cloud-based version of a Mule project.

//TITLE TBD:
=== Mule Application Features

It is important to understand concepts related to Mule application development.

> * xref:mule-application-about.adoc[Mule Apps]

Reviewer: Consider working this in to the opening text of the landing page, as suggested above.
You don't really want to list all of the concepts and define them here; that is content for the topics that follow the landing page.

> == Tutorials

Reviewer: I would end the landing page intro text by saying that you can enhance your understanding of the build and consume processes by following the supplied tutorial, which includes a basic, real-world application that applies all the described concepts and tasks.

These tutorials show a basic Hello World application concepts and a more
complex integration application that transforms the data it receives over a
database connection.

> 

Reviewer: GLOBALLY remove the links from the landing page.

The user can view the TOC and these links in the left panel while reading this page, right?

Maybe we can even add some text to the beginning of each landing page in our doc library that says something like...:

 "When you <do this thing that the doc is about>, you follow a user journey that you can see outlined in the TOC panel to the left."

  "To develop a Mule application, you must understand certain basic application concepts, such as....

  "You can develop Mule applications in one of three environments...

  "To use your Mule application, you next build and consume an API <so that you can...>.

 "To further your understanding of Mule application development, follow the supplied real-world tutorial, which <leads you through these stages>.

Author: @kbostrom An issue is that some of the user journey for app dev is in other areas of the doc set, not just in Mule Runtime.

* xref:mule-app-dev-helloworld.adoc[Getting Started with Mule Apps: Hello World]
* xref:mule-app-tutorial.adoc[Mule App Development Tutorial]

> == Build and Consume an API

Reviewer: This title is misleading, because the user is building AN APPLICATION from and API and consuming DATA from an API. At least, that is according to the links below. Please clarify.

> You can build Mule REST or SOAP APIs from an API specification using APIkit,

Reviewer: As indicated above, I would tell WHY the audience wants/needs an API as part of developing an app, which is the topic of this doc. The rest is fine, or can be moved to that topic that follows the landing page. But I would axe the xrefs, because of the left pane.

> and your Mule app can incorporate a connector, such as the Web Service Consumer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and your Mule app can incorporate a connector, such as Anypoint Connector for Web Service Consumer
```

> connector or HTTP connector, that consumes API data. You can also use incorporate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or Anypoint Connector for HTTP, that consumes API data. You can also incorporate
```

connectors that are available from Anypoint Exchange or use the Mule SDK to
develop your own connector.

> * xref:build-application-from-api.adoc[Build an Application from an API]

Reviewer: remove all xrefs on this page

* xref:consume-data-from-an-api.adoc[Consume Data from an API]

> === Development

Reviewer: This is an odd and vague topic to have as a subtopic of Mule Application Development. It sounds like one and the same topic.
See suggested reorg above.
Copyedited only for reference below.

You can start a Mule app with or without an API specification, connect to
external data sources using connectors, process your data with Core components,

> and create other configurations you need to complete your application.

Reviewer: Consider this:
"Developing a Mule application involves starting the app (with or without an API specification), connecting to external data sources using connectors, and processing your data using core components."
Not sure what to say about "create other configurations you need," because it is vague. Do we have a "for example" re. "other configurations"?
This is text that belongs at the beginning of the doc intro, not the end.
See suggested reorg above.

* xref:docs-connectors::index.adoc[Connectors]
* xref:about-components.adoc[Core Components]
* xref:about-mule-configuration.adoc[Mule Configuration]
* xref:securing.adoc[Security]

> == See Also

Reviewer: I'm not sure that a landing page should have See Also links.
If this is information that the user should be familiar with prior to accessing the topic set represented by this page, then consider saying that from the start. If after, consider ending the page with "next" text.

* xref:docs-studio::index.adoc[Anypoint Studio]
* xref:docs-studio::to-download-and-install-studio.adoc[Downloading and Installing Anypoint Studio]
* xref:docs-design-center::index.adoc[Design Center]
* xref:docs-design-center::about-designing-a-mule-application.adoc[Flow Designer]
* xref:using-maven-with-mule.adoc[Maven Support in Mule]

> 

Reviewer: I did not read comments.

= Mule Application Development
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Mule applications enable you to perform data integrations for your use cases.

Reviewer 2: I would just say "integrations" since there are other use cases that you can implement that are not data integration.

Typical Mule applications read data from internal and external sources,
process and transform data to the required formats and structures, and
write that output to the systems and servers where you store and use the
transformed data.

//TITLE TBD:
== Mule Applications

> You can start a Mule app with or without an API specification, connect to

Reviewer 2: Should we be more explicit about the different use cases for building mule applications?. There a very well defined set of use cases like implementing an API, create a new API by orchestrating other APIs, data integration, batch processing, b2b integration And there are other use cases that can also be implemented with the Mule Runtime with some restrictions like process automation, ETL, etc. This section seems key and we should engage with PMs.

external data sources using connectors, process your data with Core components,
and create other configurations you need to complete your application.

* xref:mule-application-about.adoc[Mule Apps]:
Learn basic Mule concepts.
* xref:about-mule-configuration.adoc[Mule Configuration]: Understand the XML

> structure and configurations of Mule apps, domains used for sharing resources

Reviewer 2: I would not mention domains yet to keep it simple, nor policies. Maybe there should be a parent section that provides a high level description of each artifact and then the user can dive deeper into each of them starting from Mule apps?
